breaking news tonight the next push to
reopen more than half the country to
loosen restrictions tomorrow as
demonstrators demand states move even
faster the new pushback to the protests
it's devastatingly worrisome to me
personally and why some areas are now
reversing their facemask orders is it
getting worse the deadliest 24 hours in
America yet the states now seeing cases
surge and the hospital that says it was
their worst day ever
war of words the Trump administration
ramping up its accusations against China
I can tell you that there is a
significant amount of evidence that this
came from that laboratory in one the US
now threatening to retaliate and there's
good news tonight the Americans taking
their stimulus checks and paying them
forward and the neighbors paying tribute
to the flag this is NBC Nightly News
with Kate snow good evening across so
much of the country tonight it is
starting to feel like the grip of this
pandemic is loosening many states have
reopened public spaces this weekend and
as we start the work week tomorrow more
businesses will reopen in more than half
the states but we got a stark reminder
today that families are still losing
loved ones at an alarming rate in a 24
hour period going into this weekend this
country saw the highest daily death toll
yet with death rates increasing in
places outside the New York area we're
covering many parts of the story tonight
and we begin with Blaine Alexander in
Atlanta the race to reopen is heating up
with warm weekend weather drawing people
out of their homes in droves and more
protests sweeping the country tomorrow a
new wave of states will open their doors
they're eager to get back to our third
sight starting Monday more than half the
country 32 states will be at least
partially open for business among the
latest Arizona Florida Indiana and
Missouri all reopening tomorrow both
Washington and Kentucky set to join in
about a week I'm glad to get people back
to work beaches in Clearwater Florida
will open their shores Monday that's
good news for clear sky cafe
tables are about eight feet apart we're
doing single-use menus but it's not just
a flip of the switch says governor
Rhonda Santa's tomorrow is just just one
step it's certainly not the Florida that
we had in February restaurants and sores
can only open at half capacity and
miami-dade Broward and Palm Beach
counties will remain closed despite
protests we need to pay our bills we
have mortgages we have family to feed
elsewhere just because states are
reopening does not mean stores are
following suit at this salon in Phoenix
brindaban says she desperately misses
work but the risk is not worth it I know
that I still owe rent and I have no
money coming in why aren't we listening
to the doctors and the scientists that
are telling us that it's not safe why
put yourself at risk and put your
clients at risk with the federal
guidelines for social distancing
officially expired the call to reopen is
growing louder protesters sweeping
Massachusetts Maine and Illinois many
without masks raising new concerns it's
devastatingly worrisome to me personally
because if they go home and infect their
grandmother or their grandfather they
will feel guilty for the rest of our
lives so we need to protect each other
at the same time we're voicing our
discontent it comes as Ohio's governor
is forced to make an about-face
reversing his order requiring customers
to wear masks inside stores saying some
residents found it offensive it became
clear to me that that was just a bridge
too far that people were not going to
accept the government telling them what
to do same in Stillwater Oklahoma where
some employees faced physical threats
from shoppers who did not want to cover
their faces and with the nation's parks
becoming more populated some states are
cracking down Massachusetts closing at
least five parks that were too crowded
same in Connecticut as some reached
capacity and in the nation's capital
where the city is still under a
stay-at-home order it's back to work for
some on Capitol Hill the Senate back in
session Monday as the house remains in
recess and Blaine joins us now from
Atlanta Blaine another big change
starting tomorrow more shopping malls
will be open yeah Kay that's right as of
tomorrow in fact Simon Property Group is
opening three dozen malls
nearly across the country including
Phipps Plaza here in Atlanta
that makes nearly 70 that will be open
by the end of the week but just because
malls are opening their doors that does
not mean that the stores inside are
doing the same thing hey Blaine
Alexander in Atlanta for us thank you
how exactly and where this pandemic
started is getting a closer look tonight
today one of the president's closest
advisors placed blame squarely on a
Chinese lab but stopped short of
providing any proof Kelly O'Donnell
reports from the White House while
science looks for a cure US intelligence
pursues a different course assessing
China's culpability a lot of things are
happening with respect to China we're
not happy today the Secretary of State
accelerated the pressure I can tell you
that there is a significant amount of
evidence that this came from that
laboratory in one giving theories new
oxygen the president was pressed to
explain what evidence ties the outbreak
to the Chinese lab but held back I can't
tell you that some consensus but many
questions the Director of National
Intelligence contends kovat 19 virus was
not man-made or genetically modified so
not considered a biological weapon but
officials say they need more proof to
determine if the outbreak began through
contact with infected animals at China's
wet markets an accident at the Wuhan lab
or another unproven theory was this an
intentional act you know I don't have
anything to say about that
however Pompeo pointedly blames China's
Communist Party for blocking access to
its labs we still need to get in there
we still don't have the virus samples we
need this is an ongoing threat a China
state-run news agency released a video
notably in English that mocks American
reaction to what it claims were China's
warnings it's airborne
but the administration is not in a
joking mood President Trump is very
clear we're going to hold those
responsible accountable and we'll do so
on a timeline that our is our own and
Kellie's with us at the White House
there's new reporting Kelly tonight on a
homeland security memo concerning China
that's right The Associated Press
reports that obtained the four-page
homeland security memo that asserts that
China intentionally concealed the extent
of its outbreak early in January in part
to amass more medical supplies and gear
while it was also reducing exports to
other countries that would soon be in
need Kate Kelly O'Donnell thank you even
as states relaxed restrictions there's a
new warning tonight that kovat cases and
deaths will only get worse across a big
part of the country Kathy Park has that
report tonight trouble data from the
World Health Organization the u.s.
marked its deadliest 24 hours last week
with more than 2,900 lives lost to koban
19 the number of deaths that are
accruing on a daily basis tell you what
was happening maybe three or four weeks
ago in terms of new infections so we're
gonna see deaths continue to rise even
as the epidemic starts to peak and
decline the former FDA Commissioner
warning that when you take the New York
tri-state out of the equation the spread
is more persistent there's about 20
states with a number of new cases on a
daily basis is increasing and the actual
overall trend nationally is towards more
hospitalizations and more new cases the
virus has a firm grip on Gallup New
Mexico it's so bad the governor closed
all roads in and out of the city they're
turning people around but this resident
got through I did make it through the
roadblocks so I you do have to have some
proof of residency the death toll in
Michigan now tops 4,000 and has a
highest fatality rate in the country
data showing Detroit the hardest hit in
Worcester Massachusetts a top doctor at
UMass Memorial reported 107 patients in
his ICU Friday calling it the worst day
we've ever had cases continue to climb
in New Jersey but hospitalizations are
down the Garden State now joining New
York and a northeast consortium to boost
a purchasing power for PPE ventilators
and medical equipment today Governor
Andrew Cuomo announcing hospitalizations
dropped below 10,000 for the first time
since mid-march during the height of New
York's outbreak we met
doctors fighting to save lives what can
I say it's the end of the shift Saturday
April 4th just a horrendous horrendous
shift we have right now 20 I think 20 21
ventilators running here and it's
emergency department in the hospital we
have roughly 90 ventilators running I
just got out of my 10-hour shift and it
feels like playing dominoes every single
minute over 10 hours straight
feeling like any one of your patients is
about to fall and collapse a month later
they're seeing progress but the victims
still weigh heavy on their hearts today
dr. earnest patty sharing less is
learned
can't take anything for granted and
three reasons for staying motivated the
reason why I'm so happy I can tell you
that it's so devastating Kathy's with us
in Central Park because of the decrease
in hospitalizations what's happening to
that field hospital behind you locate
they will actually stop taking new
patients starting tomorrow and in total
191 Cova 19 patients have been treated
at this location since April 1st Kate
all right Kathy Park thank you we have
new developments tonight concerning an
allegation made against a parent
Democratic nominee Joe Biden his accuser
talking to our ally vitally about what
she did and did not report when she says
the incident occurred former Senate
staffer Tara Reid who alleges that
former Vice President Joe Biden sexually
assaulted her when he was a senator
reiterating to NBC News this weekend
that she never used the word sexual
assault in a complaint Reid said she
filed back in 1993 Biden has flatly
denied her allegation I'm saying
unequivocally it never happened
Puran Reid cancelled an interview with
Fox News Sunday citing threats against
her and her family she told NBC in a
text message she's not sure what
explicit words she might have used in
the 27 year old complaint she says was
filed Reid said it was regarding
harassment she says she experienced in
Biden's office not the alleged sexual
assault
she also told The Associated Press she
was quote too scared to write about the
sexual assault Biden has asked for those
documents to be released if that
document existed it would be stored in
the National Archives
there is also mounting pressure for
Biden to open his sealed documents
stored at the University of Delaware
this is like the Hillary emails because
there was nothing there
several Obama administration alumni say
no allegations like reads ever surfaced
during Biden's extensive vetting for the
2008 ticket meanwhile conservatives
point out the response to read stands in
stark contrast to the way Democrats and
Biden were rallied around Supreme Court
nominee Brett Kavanaugh accuser
Christine Ozzie Ford there should be a
presumption of innocence across the
board however if you can't just apply it
only to people who you agree with
politically that's that's a problem
during the Kavanagh hearings Biden said
dr. Ford should be given the benefit of
the doubt ally Vitaliy NBC News
Washington help for the heroes a new
lifeline for doctors struggling with the
immense pressure of being on the front
lines and amid the crisis moments of
unity like this one a Louisiana mom just
out of the hospital after beating
coronavirus finally allowed to hold her
two-year-old again we've reported
extensively on health care workers and
how this pandemic is affecting their
mental health tonight we want to tell
you about a team of psychiatrists who
have come together donating their own
time to run an anonymous support line
for their peers doctors on the front
lines for dr. Andrea Hadley the most
stressful part is imagining what would
happen to their kids
if both she and her husband got sick
with kovat 19 building up the anxiety
sorry
she's a hospitalist with Spectrum Health
in Grand Rapids Michigan her husband an
intensive care doctor the day it really
hit her was when the hospital stopped
allowing visitors
serious but thinking you know in part
houses get ill doing their job or
friends or colleagues like we won't be
able to visit them even if they're dying
a few days later she called an anonymous
support line just for doctors dr. Mona
Massoud a psychiatrist from Philadelphia
created the line when she started
hearing cries for help on a Facebook
page for doctors people were starting to
say is anybody else feeling a lot of
anxiety about going into work am I gonna
give it to my family and my friends you
know and I can't tell Society cuz
they're calling us heroes now and I
really actually feel like a coward
psychiatrist dr. Smita Gao Tong helped
her launch physicians have hard time
asking for help and physicians feel
abused when they ask for help and so
you're trying to break that barrier
this is dr. gruesome how can I help you
more than 600 licensed psychiatrists
across the country now volunteer to take
shifts psychiatrists were not able to
work on the frontlines nice to use but
we all wanted to help I joined a zoom
with four of the volunteers apologizing
for calling and worried you know taking
too much of our time we're hearing a lot
about the anxiety that distress the
feelings of isolation some calls lasts
over an hour and it matters that they're
talking with another doctor appear we
have some sense when they talk about it
in a medical way what they're going
through and I think that they appreciate
that having an outlet is essential a
recent scan of social media posts from
25,000 health care workers found a
notable decline in their well-being some
feeling they're not saving enough people
what do you tell doctors who are feeling
that way we have to ground ourselves as
much as we can in the moment and realize
that we are doing what is in our power
how we handle ourselves is something
that we can have some control over dr.
Hadley has encouraged doctors on her
staff to use the support line - if we
don't take care of ourselves then we
won't be here to take care of our
patients so important and starting
tomorrow the physician support line will
be available
seven days a week for all but the
overnight hours the number right there
on your screen if you need it when we
come back the Americans donating their
own government stimulus checks to help
others bounce back and there's this
moment of unity from Michigan a man
serenading his neighborhood twice every
day with god bless america
[Music]
there's good news tonight about paying
it forward in these tough economic times
so many Americans are taking that
stimulus check they received from the
government and doing something
surprising with it here's Kristen
Dahlgren hey everyone I pledge to share
my check across the country I have
pledged to donate I will be donating a
new campaign in kindness I'm going to
pay it forward
Americans donating their stimulus checks
to those in need just cooked just right
benadryl in Killeen Texas Ron Carney a
carpenter by trade spent his money on
groceries to feed over a hundred 60
hungry neighbors was worth my stimulus I
believe just to make other people smile
at least one day people out here they
need the help in Texas it was this scene
thousands of cars lined up at the San
Antonio Food Bank that inspired a lane
hubby to donate her entire twelve
hundred dollar check to someone that
could help at this Arkansas Steakhouse
workers got a big surprise from some
regulars at twelve hundred dollar tip
enough for every employee to get $100
even those in the medical community
promising to keep giving dr. Jeff's
Friedman who qualified for a check based
on her residency status last year plans
to give some money away but there's also
this part of just like seeing and
recognizing people they say like I see
you I see your suffering and it matters
to me is a really important thing that I
think can affect a person's emotional
and physical health is law at the heart
of the America
spirit a sense of duty I'm gonna take
care of my neighborhood everybody takes
here to their neighborhood we're gonna
be okay a gift of hope to so many who
need it most
hmm Kristen Dahlgren NBC News that's San
Antonio Food Bank more than 50 people
already have donated their checks those
small acts of kindness really matter
right now that is NBC Nightly News on a
Sunday night Lester Holt will be back
with you tomorrow I'm Kate snow for all
of us here at NBC News stay safe and
have a great night
[Music]
hey NBC News fans thanks for checking
out our youtube channel subscribe by
clicking on that button down here and
click on any of the videos over here to
watch the latest interviews show
highlights and digital exclusives thanks
for watching